docs/implementation/T403 - Build Transformations Section & Polling/requirements.md, before:

# Product Requirements Document: T403 - Build Transformations Section & Polling

## 1. Overview

This document outlines the product and functional requirements for task **T403 - Build Transformations Section & Polling**. The primary objective is to develop the user interface on the Image Detail page that displays a list of transformation tasks applied to a source image. This section will show the real-time status of each task by polling a dedicated API endpoint and provide a link to the final result upon completion. This feature is critical for providing users with transparent feedback on the progress of their image processing requests.

## 2. Requirements & Stories

### Personas

- **Registered User:** A user who has signed up and can access the core features of the application.

### Functional Requirements

- **T403-FR01:** As a Registered User, I want to see a list of all transformation tasks I have initiated for a specific image, so that I can track their status.
- **T403-FR02:** As a Registered User, I want to see the real-time status of each transformation task (e.g., PENDING, SUCCESS, FAILED), so that I know the current state of my request.
- **T403-FR03:** As a Registered User, I want the status of my transformation tasks to update automatically without me having to refresh the page, so that I have a seamless experience.
- **T403-FR04:** As a Registered User, I want to be able to click on a completed transformation task and be taken to a page where I can view and download the result, so that I can access my processed image.
- **T403-FR05:** As a Registered User, I want to see a clear error message if a transformation task fails, so that I understand what went wrong.

## 3. Acceptance Criteria (Gherkin Syntax)

### T403-FR01: View Transformation Task List

```gherkin
Given I am a Registered User on the Image Detail page for an image I uploaded
When I have submitted one or more transformation requests for that image
Then I should see a section titled "Transformations"
And this section should display a list of all transformation tasks associated with that image.
```

### T403-FR02 & T403-FR03: Real-time Status Updates via Polling

```gherkin
Given I am viewing the "Transformations" section for an image with a "PENDING" task
When the system polls the status endpoint
And the task status changes from "PENDING" to "SUCCESS"
Then the UI should automatically update to show the status as "SUCCESS" without a page reload.
```

### T403-FR04: Access Completed Transformation

```gherkin
Given I am viewing the "Transformations" section for an image
And a transformation task has a status of "SUCCESS"
When I click on that task item
Then I should be redirected to the result page for that specific transformation.
```

### T403-FR05: Display Failed Transformation

```gherkin
Given I am viewing the "Transformations" section for an image
And a transformation task has a status of "FAILED"
When I view the task in the list
Then the UI should clearly display the status as "FAILED"
And the item should not be clickable to a result page.
```

## 4. Non-Functional Requirements

- **T403-NR01 (Performance):** The polling mechanism must be efficient. The status check API call (`GET /api/images/<id>/tasks/`) should respond in under **300ms**.
- **T403-NR02 (Performance):** The polling frequency should be reasonable to provide timely updates without overwhelming the server (e.g., every 2-3 seconds). Polling should automatically stop once all tasks for the image are in a terminal state (SUCCESS or FAILED).
- **T403-NR03 (Usability):** The UI must provide clear visual distinctions for each task status (e.g., using icons, colors, or badges). A loading indicator should be present while the initial list of tasks is being fetched.
- **T403-NR04 (Scalability):** The component must be able to handle and display a large number of transformation tasks for a single image without degrading UI performance.

## 5. Out of Scope

- **Deleting transformation tasks:** Users will not be able to delete or remove a task from the history list.
- **Re-running a failed task:** This feature will not provide a button to retry a failed transformation.
- **Displaying detailed error reasons:** The UI will only show a generic "FAILED" status, not the specific reason for the failure.
- **Real-time push notifications:** Status updates will be managed via polling, not WebSockets or other real-time push technologies.

## 6. Traceability Matrix

This table maps the requirements defined in this document back to the high-level formal requirements.

| Task Requirement ID | Description                              | High-Level Requirement ID |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| T403-FR01           | View list of transformation tasks        | FR014                     |
| T403-FR02           | See real-time status of each task        | FR014                     |
| T403-FR03           | Status updates automatically via polling | FR014, NR002              |
| T403-FR04           | Access completed transformation result   | FR015                     |
| T403-FR05           | See clear error message on failure       | FR016                     |
| T403-NR01           | Polling API response time                | NR001, NR003              |
| T403-NR02           | Efficient polling frequency              | NR002, NR005              |
| T403-NR03           | Clear visual status indicators           | NR009, NR010              |
| T403-NR04           | UI scales with many tasks                | NR004                     |

Commit message:

feat: Enhance Transformations Section with Pagination and Load More Functionality
- Introduced a new `LoadMoreCard` component to trigger loading of additional transformation tasks.
- Updated `TransformationsSection` to utilize `useInfiniteQuery` for efficient pagination.
- Refactored data fetching logic to support cursor-based pagination, improving performance and user experience.
- Added new functional requirement for loading older transformation tasks.
- Updated API documentation to reflect the new endpoint for fetching tasks by image ID with pagination support.

docs/implementation/T403 - Build Transformations Section & Polling/requirements.md, after:

# Product Requirements Document: T403 - Build Transformations Section & Polling

## 1. Overview

This document outlines the product and functional requirements for task **T403 - Build Transformations Section & Polling**. The primary objective is to develop the user interface on the Image Detail page that displays a list of transformation tasks applied to a source image. This section will show the real-time status of each task by polling a dedicated API endpoint and provide a link to the final result upon completion. This feature is critical for providing users with transparent feedback on the progress of their image processing requests.

## 2. Requirements & Stories

### Personas

- **Registered User:** A user who has signed up and can access the core features of the application.

### Functional Requirements

- **T403-FR01:** As a Registered User, I want to see a list of my most recent transformation tasks I have initiated for a specific image, so that I can track their status.
- **T403-FR02:** As a Registered User, I want to see the real-time status of each transformation task (e.g., PENDING, SUCCESS, FAILED), so that I know the current state of my request.
- **T403-FR03:** As a Registered User, I want the status of my transformation tasks to update automatically without me having to refresh the page, so that I have a seamless experience.
- **T403-FR04:** As a Registered User, I want to be able to click on a completed transformation task and be taken to a page where I can view and download the result, so that I can access my processed image.
- **T403-FR05:** As a Registered User, I want to see a clear error message if a transformation task fails, so that I understand what went wrong.
- **T403-FR06:** As a Registered User, I want to be able to load older transformation tasks for an image, so that I can view the complete history of transformations.

## 3. Acceptance Criteria (Gherkin Syntax)

### T403-FR01: View Transformation Task List

```gherkin
Given I am a Registered User on the Image Detail page for an image I uploaded
When I have submitted one or more transformation requests for that image
Then I should see a section titled "Transformations"
And this section should display a list of the most recent transformation tasks associated with that image
And the tasks should be ordered with the most recent task on the rightmost side.
```

### T403-FR02 & T403-FR03: Real-time Status Updates via Polling

```gherkin
Given I am viewing the "Transformations" section for an image with a "PENDING" task
When the system polls the status endpoint
And the task status changes from "PENDING" to "SUCCESS"
Then the UI should automatically update to show the status as "SUCCESS" without a page reload.
```

### T403-FR04: Access Completed Transformation

```gherkin
Given I am viewing the "Transformations" section for an image
And a transformation task has a status of "SUCCESS"
When I click on that task item
Then I should be redirected to the result page for that specific transformation.
```

### T403-FR05: Display Failed Transformation

```gherkin
Given I am viewing the "Transformations" section for an image
And a transformation task has a status of "FAILED"
When I view the task in the list
Then the UI should clearly display the status as "FAILED"
And the item should not be clickable to a result page.
```

### T403-FR06: Load Older Transformations

```gherkin
Given I am viewing the "Transformations" section for an image with more tasks than are initially displayed
When I see an indicator to load more tasks on the left side of the list
And I click the "Load More" indicator
Then the list should prepend older transformation tasks to the left side of the existing tasks.
```

## 4. Non-Functional Requirements

- **T403-NR01 (Performance):** The polling mechanism must be efficient. The status check API call (`GET /api/images/<id>/tasks/`) should respond in under **300ms**.
- **T403-NR02 (Performance):** The polling frequency should be reasonable to provide timely updates without overwhelming the server (e.g., every 2-3 seconds). Polling should automatically stop once all tasks for the image are in a terminal state (SUCCESS or FAILED).
- **T403-NR03 (Usability):** The UI must provide clear visual distinctions for each task status (e.g., using icons, colors, or badges). A loading indicator should be present while the initial list of tasks is being fetched.
- **T403-NR04 (Scalability):** The component must be able to handle and display a large number of transformation tasks for a single image without degrading UI performance, utilizing cursor-based pagination to load tasks on demand.

## 5. Out of Scope

- **Deleting transformation tasks:** Users will not be able to delete or remove a task from the history list.
- **Re-running a failed task:** This feature will not provide a button to retry a failed transformation.
- **Displaying detailed error reasons:** The UI will only show a generic "FAILED" status, not the specific reason for the failure.
- **Real-time push notifications:** Status updates will be managed via polling, not WebSockets or other real-time push technologies.

## 6. Traceability Matrix

This table maps the requirements defined in this document back to the high-level formal requirements.

| Task Requirement ID | Description                              | High-Level Requirement ID |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| T403-FR01           | View list of transformation tasks        | FR014                     |
| T403-FR02           | See real-time status of each task        | FR014                     |
| T403-FR03           | Status updates automatically via polling | FR014, NR002              |
| T403-FR04           | Access completed transformation result   | FR015                     |
| T403-FR05           | See clear error message on failure       | FR016                     |
| T403-FR06           | Load older transformation tasks          | FR014                     |
| T403-NR01           | Polling API response time                | NR001, NR003              |
| T403-NR02           | Efficient polling frequency              | NR002, NR005              |
| T403-NR03           | Clear visual status indicators           | NR009, NR010              |
| T403-NR04           | UI scales with many tasks                | NR004                     |
